README.md, before:

# Cal-Adapt Svelte Components

This repository is for developing new UI Components for [Cal-Adapt.org](https://cal-adapt.org). These components use the [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/) JavaScript framework and [IBM Carbon Design](https://www.carbondesignsystem.com/) system.

The rationale for this component repository is:

1. To reduce the time for developing and iterating on UI components for Cal-Adapt.

2. Develop components in isolation so that they may be compatible in other Cal-Adapt related projects.

## The Components

### Search with auto-suggest

A search box component with auto-suggest. Similar to the [CDS ComboBox](https://carbon-components-svelte.onrender.com/components/ComboBox) but with some corrections to `aria` and `role` attributes for improved accessibility.

- [Component code](./src/lib/Search/)
- [Demo](./src/routes/search.svelte)

#### Behavior Notes

Note that the Search component **will not** filter list items on its own, it's up to you to implement filtering. One way to do this is by using an `on:input` binding and filtering the `suggestions` prop based on what the user types. For suggestions that are retrieved asyncronously, e.g. from a RESTful API, it is recommended to [debounce](https://css-tricks.com/debouncing-throttling-explained-examples/) the input event handler.

#### Props

| Prop name    | Type                     | Default Value                        | Description                                                   |
| ------------ | ------------------------ | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| description  | string                   | "Search for a place name or address" | The input's label & placeholder text.                         |
| searchValue  | string                   | ""                                   | The value of the search input.                                |
| suggestions  | Suggestion[ ]            | [ ]                                  | The array of suggestions to be shown in the listbox.          |
| outlineColor | string                   | "#fdd13a"                            | The outline color to use when the input is focused.           |
| inputRef     | HTMLInputElement \| null | null                                 | Reference to the search input HTML node.                      |
| inputId      | string                   | `cac-${Math.random().toString(36)}`  | Optional id for the input element.                            |
| size         | "sm"\|"lg"\|"xl"         | "sm"                                 | The size of the carbon components' search bar.                |
| listboxLabel | string                   | "Options"                            | The aria-label for the listbox                                |
| debug        | boolean                  | false                                | Enables console.log'ing of reactive variables & some methods. |

#### Events

When a list item from the Search component's `suggestions` list is selected a `change` custom event is dispatched with the `selectedItem`.

Additionally, the following native events may be listened for on the Search component's input element:

- `change`
- `input`
- `focus`
- `blur`
- `keydown`
- `keyup`

### Static Map

The Static Map is intended to be used within a tool's settings panel as a
locator map that displays the geographic boundary selected by the user. In most tools, it is wrapped in an HTML `<button>` element that when clicked on displays a modal which allows the user to change the selected location. The Static Map is not responsible for changing the location, only for handling a click event that may be used to trigger opening a modal.

- [Component code](./src/lib/StaticMap/)
- [Demo](./src/routes/static-map.svelte)

#### Props

| Prop Name      | Type             | Default Value                        | Description                                               |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------- |
| width          | number           | 250                                  | The width of the component / map in pixels.               |
| height         | number           | 250                                  | The height of the component / map in pixels.              |
| location       | Location \| null | null                                 | The location data to display as an overlay on the map.    |
| basemapStyle   | string           | streets-v11                          | The name of the MapBox map tiles style.                   |
| padding        | number           | 20                                   | Padding in pixels between the overlay and map frame.      |
| useButton      | boolean          | true                                 | Whether or not to wrap the map in an HTML button element. |
| tableId        | string           | `cac- ${Math.random().toString(36)}` | The id attribute of the SVG title element.                |
| --border-color | string           | var(--gray-90)                       | The color of the map frame / neatline.                    |
| --stroke       | string           | var(--gray-80)                       | The stroke color of the location overlay.                 |
| --stroke-width | number           | 3                                    | The stroke width in pixels of the location overlay.       |

#### Events

- `click`

**Note:** The `click` event handler is only exposed when `useButton` is set to `true`.

## Developing

Once you've installed dependencies with `npm install`, start a development server:

```bash
npm run dev

# or start the server and open the app in a new browser tab
npm run dev -- --open
```

## Building

To create a production version of your app:

```bash
npm run build
```

You can preview the production build with `npm run preview`.

**Note:** To deploy your app, you may need to install an [adapter](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapters) for your target environment.

## Packaging

To compile the components from the [`src/lib`](./src/lib/) component directory so that they may be used as a dependency within another project do:

```bash
npm run package
```

This will create a local `package/` directory with the compiled Svelte components, meaning all TypeScript will be converted to normal JavaScript and all Sass will be converted to normal CSS.

## Publishing to NPM and Github

The components in this repository are made publicly available on NPM and Github. The steps for publishing them are as follows:

```bash
npm version patch # updates the package version (including in git)
npm run package
npm publish --access=public ./package
git push origin --tags
```

Then create a release on Github with the package code by doing:

```bash
cd ./package
npm run pack
```

This will create a `berkeley-gif-cal-adapt-svelte-components-<x.x.x>.tzg` file in the `package/` directory which may be included with the Github release.

## Linking

The `package` directory of this repo may be [`npm link`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npm-link)'d to another project for local development.

First, from the `./package` directory of this repository (assuming you have already done `npm run package`):

```bash
npm link
```

Then from the project directory that uses this component library:

```bash
npm link cal-adapt-svelte-components
```

Now when the `package` directory is updated the project using it will reflect those updates. This means whenever components are updated in `src/lib` the script `npm run package` will need to be run in order to reflect updates.

**Note** that if you have multiple versions of NodeJS installed that you need to make sure you're using `npm link` with the same NodeJS and NPM version.

**Note** that the `caladapt-website-2021` project uses [Sapper](https://sapper.svelte.dev) (the predecessor to SvelteKit) and in order to import components from this repo you must use the component's full path.

For example:

```js
import SomeComponent from "cal-adapt-svelte-components/SomeComponent/SomeComponent.svelte";
```

Sapper / Webpack will not be able to resolve the bare module import and thus the following will fail:

```js
import { SomeComponent } from "cal-adapt-svelte-components";
```

## Tests

Component unit tests are written in TypeScript and run via [Jest](https://jestjs.io/), [Babel](https://babeljs.io/), [@testing-library](https://testing-library.com/), and [svelte-jester](https://www.npmjs.com/package/svelte-jester).

To run component unit tests do

```
npm run test
```

To have tests run in watch mode do:

```
npm run test:watch
```

## Check Sass Build

The rebuild times for the project's [global Sass](./src/styles/main.scss) is a little slow with Vite. To verify that the project's global Sass compiles successfully you may do:

```bash
npm run sass:check
```

If all goes well no output will be shown. Any errors will be printed to the console.

## Code Credits

### create-svelte

This project was bootstrapped using [SvelteKit](https://kit.svelte.dev)'s [`create-svelte`](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/tree/master/packages/create-svelte) project generator:

```bash
npm init svelte@next cal-adapt-svelte-components
```

Commit message:

StaticMap: support point geometries (#12)
* added station.json to data/locations

* demo loads station.json

* StaticMap setProjection handles point geometries

* reference overlay, not location; render stroke for non-point geoms

* point geom renders marker instead of path

* update marker style props

* update readme with additional props docs for point geom

* made zoom a reactive prop

* updated demo with form ui for zoom prop

* updated tests

* update svelte config: rm kit.vite.publicDir option

* added dep: esbuild to resolve netlify build error?

* jest ignore build & package dirs

* fixed todo

* added reactive value for --marker-stroke in demo

* added more style props overrides in demo

README.md, after:

# Cal-Adapt Svelte Components

This repository is for developing new UI Components for [Cal-Adapt.org](https://cal-adapt.org). These components use the [Svelte](https://svelte.dev/) JavaScript framework and [IBM Carbon Design](https://www.carbondesignsystem.com/) system.

The rationale for this component repository is:

1. To reduce the time for developing and iterating on UI components for Cal-Adapt.

2. Develop components in isolation so that they may be compatible in other Cal-Adapt related projects.

## The Components

### Search with auto-suggest

A search box component with auto-suggest. Similar to the [CDS ComboBox](https://carbon-components-svelte.onrender.com/components/ComboBox) but with some corrections to `aria` and `role` attributes for improved accessibility.

- [Component code](./src/lib/Search/)
- [Demo](./src/routes/search.svelte)

#### Behavior Notes

Note that the Search component **will not** filter list items on its own, it's up to you to implement filtering. One way to do this is by using an `on:input` binding and filtering the `suggestions` prop based on what the user types. For suggestions that are retrieved asyncronously, e.g. from a RESTful API, it is recommended to [debounce](https://css-tricks.com/debouncing-throttling-explained-examples/) the input event handler.

#### Props

| Prop name    | Type                     | Default Value                        | Description                                                   |
| ------------ | ------------------------ | ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| description  | string                   | "Search for a place name or address" | The input's label & placeholder text.                         |
| searchValue  | string                   | ""                                   | The value of the search input.                                |
| suggestions  | Suggestion[ ]            | [ ]                                  | The array of suggestions to be shown in the listbox.          |
| outlineColor | string                   | "#fdd13a"                            | The outline color to use when the input is focused.           |
| inputRef     | HTMLInputElement \| null | null                                 | Reference to the search input HTML node.                      |
| inputId      | string                   | `cac-${Math.random().toString(36)}`  | Optional id for the input element.                            |
| size         | "sm"\|"lg"\|"xl"         | "sm"                                 | The size of the carbon components' search bar.                |
| listboxLabel | string                   | "Options"                            | The aria-label for the listbox                                |
| debug        | boolean                  | false                                | Enables console.log'ing of reactive variables & some methods. |

#### Events

When a list item from the Search component's `suggestions` list is selected a `change` custom event is dispatched with the `selectedItem`.

Additionally, the following native events may be listened for on the Search component's input element:

- `change`
- `input`
- `focus`
- `blur`
- `keydown`
- `keyup`

### Static Map

The Static Map is intended to be used within a tool's settings panel as a
locator map that displays the geographic boundary selected by the user. In most tools, it is wrapped in an HTML `<button>` element that when clicked on displays a modal which allows the user to change the selected location. The Static Map is not responsible for changing the location, only for handling a click event that may be used to trigger opening a modal.

- [Component code](./src/lib/StaticMap/)
- [Demo](./src/routes/static-map.svelte)

#### Props

| Prop Name             | Type             | Default Value                        | Description                                                       |
| --------------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| width                 | number           | 250                                  | The width of the component / map in pixels.                       |
| height                | number           | 250                                  | The height of the component / map in pixels.                      |
| location              | Location \| null | null                                 | The location data to display as an overlay on the map.            |
| basemapStyle          | string           | streets-v11                          | The name of the MapBox map tiles style.                           |
| padding               | number           | 20                                   | Padding in pixels between the overlay and map frame.              |
| useButton             | boolean          | true                                 | Whether or not to wrap the map in an HTML button element.         |
| titleId               | string           | `cac- ${Math.random().toString(36)}` | The id attribute of the SVG title element.                        |
| zoom                  | number           | 20                                   | The map zoom level to use when displaying a Point geometry.       |
| --border-color        | string           | var(--gray-90)                       | The color of the map frame / neatline.                            |
| --stroke              | string           | var(--gray-80)                       | The stroke color of the location overlay.                         |
| --stroke-width        | number           | 3                                    | The stroke width in pixels of the location overlay.               |
| --marker-fill         | string           | var(--teal-40)                       | The fill color for the marker when displaying a Point geometry.   |
| --marker-stroke       | string           | var(--gray-80)                       | The stroke color for the marker when displaying a Point geometry. |
| --marker-stroke-width | string           | 2                                    | The stroke width for the marker when displaying a Point geometry. |

#### Events

- `click`

**Note:** The `click` event handler is only exposed when `useButton` is set to `true`.

## Developing

Once you've installed dependencies with `npm install`, start a development server:

```bash
npm run dev

# or start the server and open the app in a new browser tab
npm run dev -- --open
```

## Building

To create a production version of your app:

```bash
npm run build
```

You can preview the production build with `npm run preview`.

**Note:** To deploy your app, you may need to install an [adapter](https://kit.svelte.dev/docs/adapters) for your target environment.

## Packaging

To compile the components from the [`src/lib`](./src/lib/) component directory so that they may be used as a dependency within another project do:

```bash
npm run package
```

This will create a local `package/` directory with the compiled Svelte components, meaning all TypeScript will be converted to normal JavaScript and all Sass will be converted to normal CSS.

## Publishing to NPM and Github

The components in this repository are made publicly available on NPM and Github. The steps for publishing them are as follows:

```bash
npm version patch # updates the package version (including in git)
npm run package
npm publish --access=public ./package
git push origin --tags
```

Then create a release on Github with the package code by doing:

```bash
cd ./package
npm run pack
```

This will create a `berkeley-gif-cal-adapt-svelte-components-<x.x.x>.tzg` file in the `package/` directory which may be included with the Github release.

## Linking

The `package` directory of this repo may be [`npm link`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v7/commands/npm-link)'d to another project for local development.

First, from the `./package` directory of this repository (assuming you have already done `npm run package`):

```bash
npm link
```

Then from the project directory that uses this component library:

```bash
npm link cal-adapt-svelte-components
```

Now when the `package` directory is updated the project using it will reflect those updates. This means whenever components are updated in `src/lib` the script `npm run package` will need to be run in order to reflect updates.

**Note** that if you have multiple versions of NodeJS installed that you need to make sure you're using `npm link` with the same NodeJS and NPM version.

**Note** that the `caladapt-website-2021` project uses [Sapper](https://sapper.svelte.dev) (the predecessor to SvelteKit) and in order to import components from this repo you must use the component's full path.

For example:

```js
import SomeComponent from "cal-adapt-svelte-components/SomeComponent/SomeComponent.svelte";
```

Sapper / Webpack will not be able to resolve the bare module import and thus the following will fail:

```js
import { SomeComponent } from "cal-adapt-svelte-components";
```

## Tests

Component unit tests are written in TypeScript and run via [Jest](https://jestjs.io/), [Babel](https://babeljs.io/), [@testing-library](https://testing-library.com/), and [svelte-jester](https://www.npmjs.com/package/svelte-jester).

To run component unit tests do

```
npm run test
```

To have tests run in watch mode do:

```
npm run test:watch
```

## Check Sass Build

The rebuild times for the project's [global Sass](./src/styles/main.scss) is a little slow with Vite. To verify that the project's global Sass compiles successfully you may do:

```bash
npm run sass:check
```

If all goes well no output will be shown. Any errors will be printed to the console.

## Code Credits

### create-svelte

This project was bootstrapped using [SvelteKit](https://kit.svelte.dev)'s [`create-svelte`](https://github.com/sveltejs/kit/tree/master/packages/create-svelte) project generator:

```bash
npm init svelte@next cal-adapt-svelte-components
```
